XRTpy v0.5.0 (2025-04-02)
=========================

New Features
------------
- Introduced a new example notebook: *"Hinode-XRT: A Practical Guide to Data Extraction and Visualization"*. This tutorial provides a step-by-step guide for accessing and exploring Hinode-XRT data. (:pr:`210`)

Deprecations and Removals
--------------------------
- Dropped support for Python 3.9. (:pr:`281`)
- Removed outdated `xrt_contam_on_ccd.geny` file. This file has been replaced with updated contamination handling based on new GENX inputs. (:pr:`326`)
- Removed legacy IDL script `get_xrt_test_temperature_response.pro`, replaced by a new version for generating test datasets used in validation. (:pr:`327`)

Documentation Updates
---------------------
- Added guidelines for contributing to XRTpy, including instructions for filing issues, submitting pull requests, and improving documentation. (:pr:`248`)
- Introduced a Code of Conduct for the XRTpy community. (:pr:`278`)
- Expanded and clarified docstrings across the following classes:
  - `~xrtpy.response.channel.Channel`
  - `~xrtpy.response.EffectiveAreaFundamental`
  - `~xrtpy.response.TemperatureResponseFundamental` (:pr:`253`, :pr:`250`, :pr:`249`)

Internal Modifications and Improvements
---------------------------------------
- Fully revamped temperature response test infrastructure to match XRTpy calculations with IDL outputs across all filter channels and abundance models (coronal, hybrid, photospheric).
- Updated CCD Gain Right value in IDL GENX Version 17, now consistent across XRTpy and IDL. (:pr:`322`)
- Switched XRTpy CHIANTI emission data to version 10 to match IDL configuration. (:pr:`293`)
- Created and adopted `xrt_channels_v0017.genx` to align with updated channel configuration. (:pr:`317`, :pr:`324`)
- Updated contamination model file (`xrt_contam_on_ccd.geny`) with 2025 values. (:pr:`268`)
- Updated IDL result files used for testing:
  - Effective Area test files: 2020–2024. (:pr:`218`)
  - Temperature Response test files: 2020–2024. (:pr:`220`) . All temperature response tests now pass with <0.5% relative difference using high-confidence validation metrics.
- Updated SunPy map imports in notebooks for consistency. (:pr:`237`)

Miscellaneous
-------------
- Added `sunpy` as a dependency to the installation requirements. (:pr:`247`)
- Clarified installation instructions for users of Bash and Zsh shells. (:pr:`251`)